---
layout: post
title: Organisational security definitions
date: 2016-06-20
---

<body class="mceContentBody aui-theme-default wiki-content fullsize">
<p> </p> <p>At the Prague gathering, we identified 4 possible definitions for "organisational security":</p><h1>Definition 1</h1><ul><li>Creating safe spaces that are selectively inclusive and empowers people.</li><li>It consists of process (implementation support and development) and resources (people and technology).</li><li>Organizational control of data and how it is used (and by whom) - without any loss of control.</li><li>Facilitating their work with communities through strong reputational trust.</li><li>Composed of different aspects of risk management including physical, digital, psychosocial, legal, health.</li><li>Organizational ability to conduct their work safely, sustainably, and responsibly.</li></ul><h1>Definition 2</h1><p>A group with common operational and substantive aims, with shared and agreed practices towards protection from threat, integrity of systems, and the safety and wellbeing of individuals.</p><h1>Definition 3</h1><p>Org sec is the institutionally preserving and individually empowering - through policy, tech and education - of the availability, confidentiality, and authenticity of information and its underlying infrastructure as well as the wellbeing of staff and partners so as to enhance the sustainability and impact of the organization.</p><h1>Definition 4</h1><table class="confluenceTable"><tbody><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p><strong>Organization</strong></p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p><strong>Security</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>group dynamics</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p>holistic approach</p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>shared culture</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p>ensure work is effective and sustainability</p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>existing methods/practices</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p>capacity to maintain agency --&gt; resilience</p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>shared identity - can be formal of informal</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p> </p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>Ultimately about supporting people</p>
<p> </p>
</body>