---
layout: post
title: How to prepare for a training
date: 2021-08-31
---

<body class="mceContentBody aui-theme-default wiki-content fullsize">
<p> </p> <p><em>The following content was developed during a session at IFF lead by Wojtek Bogusz and Weike Meilink.</em></p><p> </p><p>Background – In 2017, Istanbul 10 and expertise criminalized in several countries. What practices and protocols to prepare for trainings? DDP and FLD already had a session on this subject at IGF in December.</p><p><strong>Go/No-go. How to make a decision on going ahead with a training? </strong></p><ol><li><p>Consult different sources in your local network</p><ol><li><p>Assumption training is far from where you live.</p></li><li><p>Local contacts have a continuity of knowledge on whether training is possible in a given time and at a given place</p></li><li><p>Local contact could be biased as may be used to long-term stress and accept a level of security that may be higher than should be present for a training.</p></li><li><p>Differing opinions should raise a flag</p></li><li><p>Have a secure channel with this person and make sure all of this happens via secure means. Need to stress importance of this.</p></li></ol></li><li><p>Do not go ahead just because of promises to donors</p><ol><li><p>Often there is a now or never attitude as you have money from donor, but this should <strong>NOT</strong> influence the decision.</p></li></ol></li><li><p>Look into resources in case of trouble</p><ol><li><p>What procedure? Legal implications? Who can help in case of difficulty?</p></li></ol></li><li><p>Choose a location wisely</p><ol><li><p>Check the infrastructure of the proposed location.</p></li><li><p>In some cases, it is better to spend more to get people outside the country. In this case, do not have all participants traveling together to training.</p><ol><li><p>Comment – Some prefer to travel in groups to have a sense of safety, better in terms of costs. Should we have a repository to write this down and discuss?</p></li><li><p>Comment – Some HRD in MENA have a travel ban, which makes organization think it is a good idea to do training inside the country. If do training in country, need to consider safety of all involved from trainer to HRDs etc.</p></li></ol></li><li><p>Examine the space in terms of calendar also. Does it all on an anniversary or specific date that is sensitive locally?</p></li><li><p>What is the practical context for participants?</p></li></ol></li><li><p>Examine your own assumptions.</p></li><li><p>Bad decisions get made when some too directly involved in the project makes a decision. Need to have someone less invested/more objective.</p></li><li><p>Ensure the trainers have ownership over the decision-making</p><ol><li><p>Comment - NGOs and local activists tend to stay in their framework. They find it convenient and perhaps do not recognize the risk fully.</p></li><li><p>Comment - Importance of feeling supported by team in risk assessment, with an umbrella organization takes responsibility. Trainer as an individual does not want to take on full responsibility of risk assessment. Instead, he/she would prefer to share analysis with team and responsibility.</p></li><li><p>Comment – Trainers prepared and skilled enough to say no for the good of all involved.</p></li></ol></li><li><p>Trainer should have possibility to cancel at last minute if necessary.</p></li><li><p>Need to have key overall go/no-go protocols in addition to these individual project go/no-go assessments.</p></li></ol><p><strong>Resources </strong></p><ol><li><p>Global Resources UN Department of Safety and Security have a self-training module that is a good resource during this process.</p></li><li><p>Insurance companies. Trainers should have travel insurance. Sometimes insurance can also cover legal costs. A good insurance company will have worked in the country the training takes place in. They should charge different rates based on destination and passport. They should have different rates. They should have medical evacuation. They should have security evacuation. They should have repatriation. Keep in mind that many global insurance companies do not cover war zones. Open question on whether trainers or organizations cover insurance.</p></li><li><p>In some countries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can provide travel information on current situations, conflicts etc.</p></li><li><p>Organization’s own mission security plan to be complete before each assignment between organization &amp; trainer (staff/consultant).</p><ol><li><p>Trainer’s reflection on risk.</p></li><li><p>Should you have a cover story? How close to the truth?</p></li><li><p>Main risks and mitigation strategies?</p></li><li><p>Equipment and information management</p></li><li><p>Crisis response team and drills – people in the organization and know their roles ie communication w/ diplomats, media, family. Need to have this for initial response, sustained response, and after care.</p></li></ol></li><li><p>The network can be a resource to help in situations.</p></li><li><p>Ability to shut down accounts in case of situation.</p></li><li><p>Know your rights, ie during detention in a given country. It is ideal to have access to a lawyer who knows how to work with the government.</p></li><li><p>Exit plan? And how to manage with costs already incurred? How does this impact organization, relationship with funder, relationship with HRDs? Will there be a second chance to have the training?</p></li></ol><p>Comment – We should also look to the after event and save resources (money) for the follow-up/keep support. Need resources to support trainers.</p><p>Comment - What does an organization prioritize: security of operations, personnel, or equipment? Furthermore, organization management sets level of risk threshold.</p><p><strong>Practical preparations</strong></p><p>Once you have decided to move forward, there is no perfect protocol but some ideas. Here are some forms -</p><ol><li><p>Travel sheet – Two copies. One to be left at home. Personal info, airport pick-up, accommodation, details on organization you are training, details on training location, emergency contacts.</p></li><li><p>Check-in plan – When to check in. Who needs to be contacted? If no contact, who back home will reach out to the authorities. Detail equipment taken along. Equipment could then be wiped at a distance.</p></li><li><p>Security briefing - Before traveling have a security briefing with colleagues and family.</p></li></ol><p style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Tips- Bring an empty travel device that is secured. Have an extra phone with a disposable sim card. Put social media accounts on private for duration of training. Remove digital security stickers from laptop. Have a keypass file and master password only known by family, not even you know. Reset browser history so that when you cross borders. Have a local lawyer ready.</p>
<p> </p>
</body>