---
layout: post
title: Organisational security definitions
date: 2021-08-31
---

<body class="mceContentBody aui-theme-default wiki-content fullsize">
<p> </p> <h3>After a community research <span>conducted  by The Engine Room from April to September 2019, the following was built as a definition:</span></h3><p><span>A consensus about what constitutes security and how this is best achieved is emerging in pockets of this community. Hankey and Clunaigh emphasised how the definition of security <a href="https://academic.oup.com/jhrp/article-abstract/5/3/535/2188773?redirectedFrom=PDF">“should be personal to each Human Rights Defender (HRD)”, but broadly speaking, it is about the “enabling the work of HRDs”... “in the face of hostile forces and acts”</a><br/></span></p><p><span>.</span><span> There is a growing trend towards advocating for long-term engagements with organisations and defenders, considering security in an ‘<a href="http://www.integratedsecuritymanual.org/">integrated</a>’</span><span> and ‘<a href="https://holistic-security.tacticaltech.org/">holistic</a></span><span>’</span><span> way – where digital, physical, legal and psychosocial security are all considered – and a shift away from one-off trainings. That being said, in their 2015 paper in the International Journal for Human Rights, Bennett et al</span><span> <a href="http://eprints.whiterose.ac.uk/95532/1/Bennett_et_al_2015_IJHR.pdf">caution against “systematisation and standardisation in protection activities”</a>, highlighting the risk that this could lead to a “rigidity and exclusivity” that doesn’t match the rapid shifts in the kinds of threats that defenders face or the changes in the way civil society protects and promotes human rights.</span></p><p><span>Through our community research, we uncovered disparate descriptions and definitions of organisational security, with practitioners using and relating to different languages depending on their geography, background and the communities they support. Common features of orgsec that came through in most of our conversations included the long-term nature of the practice, the focus of building capacity amongst staff and taking a holistic approach.</span></p><p><strong>Long-term support</strong></p><p><span>Practitioners described orgsec as working with organisations over months to years, not hours, days or weeks. Across all of our interviews, practitioners shared the view that “long-term support is the only way to make [an organisation] more resilient”, with one practitioner emphasising that the first year of your relationship might just be about the organisation “getting ready to do this work.” The importance of follow up was also emphasised in our interviews: “Being able to follow up with organisations [is important]; usually, support for organisations ends with the audit or recommendations but for culture change it takes time and follow up.” The shift towards longer-term engagements within the organisational security community was also evident at IFF in 2019. Practitioners <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W_O3SWdlY5OemlEvhAnkZxMJsrDpt2A3SlSUuHD0wMs/edit">spoke</a></span><span> of the benefits of having more time to get to know an organisation and their context; having a chance to check in with the organisation after making recommendations to help them with implementation, to make adjustments where context has changed.</span><span> </span></p><p><strong>Capacity building amongst staff</strong></p><p><span>Practitioners consistently talked about the importance of capacity building amongst multiple members of staff in an organisation, where possible. This was felt to be the key to sustainable impact and change within an organisation. In this context, capacity building is not only about looking for changes in the technical infrastructure of an organisation, but also looking for change at the human level. One practitioner summed it up as “both working directly, and working with the staff who will hold the work.” </span></p><p><strong>Holistic security</strong></p><p><span>Related to this focus on people is the idea of “accompanying” organisations as an orgsec practitioner, rather than supporting or training them. This subtle shift in language communicates the ideal role of an orgsec practitioner as a facilitator, helping staff in organisations to develop a “deeper understanding or intuition in how to collectively manage and strategise around core organisational processes”. Organisational security was seen as a holistic security approach by the majority of our interviewees. One practitioner defined holistic security as “integrating awareness and practices around security – whether that’s wellbeing, physical, digital security – within all aspects of the organisation.” Such an approach involves considering the people, training, strategy, process, workflows, digital security, budget, policy, staff, travel: “All the things organisations grapple with”. This idea is echoed in a collaborative, reflective </span><a href="https://medium.com/read-write-participate/a-slow-and-faraway-conversation-between-slammer-musuta-and-maya-richman-d47311ec65fd"><span>blog pos</span><span>t</span></a><span> written by two orgsec practitioners, Slammer and Maya Richman: “So many orgs that I work with do not have written organizational policies. This includes employee code of conduct, conflict resolution processes, communication and storage guidelines. Security and safety is bound to all of that. It’s more than just deciding what data to encrypt or an organization’s password management. It’s about taking care of every part of our work.” </span></p><p><strong>The language</strong></p><p><span>However, there was a feeling from some practitioners that the vocabulary and models of support around orgsec are US-dominated. There was a call for more locally specific language and framings: “Both in terms of vocabulary and models it’s very US-dominated. I have discussions with Latin American orgsec people. They say ‘first we need Latin American models’, they feel these US models don’t apply.” For example, a number of our interviewees pushed back on the language of “security”, as it carried negative connotations in a country with a military dictatorship in recent memory. These practitioners use language of safety and well-being instead.</span></p><p><strong>Practitioner backgrounds</strong></p><p><span>This community of practice is extremely diverse, both in terms of practitioners’ backgrounds and expertise, the kinds of support and capacity building they offer to Human Rights organisations, and the format this support takes. Amongst our interviewees for this community research, we spoke with practitioners with wildly different journeys into this work. People’s backgrounds ranged from roots in activism, feminist social movements and social sciences to previous roles in private sector security and computer science – and everything in between. </span></p><p><span>This introduction from Aspiration Tech summarises this diversity most effectively:</span></p><p><span>Information security trainers and technology capacity builders who support human rights organizations constitute a broad and multifaceted stakeholder group within the human rights technology ecosystem. Their profession requires uniquely interdisciplinary abilities, from technical literacy, to educational training, pedagogical knowledge, facilitation practice, well developed interpersonal skills, and a deep understanding of social, political and economic contexts. </span></p><p><span>They help human rights workers to build security culture in their organizations, and acquire the knowledge and confidence to take control of the technology they decide to use. They aim to provide them with tools to operate sustainably, and with practices that will fortify their stakeholders' rights and safety.</span><span> </span></p><p><span>These sentiments were echoed at IFF in 2019, where practitioners emphasised in multiple sessions how organisational security work is often characterised as a “technical” practice, but that in reality, communication and engagement skills are often more important.</span></p><h3>At the Prague gathering, we identified 4 possible definitions for "organisational security":</h3><h1>Definition 1</h1><ul><li>Creating safe spaces that are selectively inclusive and empowers people.</li><li>It consists of process (implementation support and development) and resources (people and technology).</li><li>Organizational control of data and how it is used (and by whom) - without any loss of control.</li><li>Facilitating their work with communities through strong reputational trust.</li><li>Composed of different aspects of risk management including physical, digital, psychosocial, legal, health.</li><li>Organizational ability to conduct their work safely, sustainably, and responsibly.</li></ul><h1>Definition 2</h1><p>A group with common operational and substantive aims, with shared and agreed practices towards protection from threat, integrity of systems, and the safety and wellbeing of individuals.</p><h1>Definition 3</h1><p>Org sec is the institutionally preserving and individually empowering - through policy, tech and education - of the availability, confidentiality, and authenticity of information and its underlying infrastructure as well as the wellbeing of staff and partners so as to enhance the sustainability and impact of the organization.</p><h1>Definition 4</h1><table class="wrapped confluenceTable"><tbody><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p><strong>Organization</strong></p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p><strong>Security</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>group dynamics</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p>holistic approach</p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>shared culture</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p>ensure work is effective and sustainability</p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>existing methods/practices</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p>capacity to maintain agency --&gt; resilience</p></td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><p>shared identity - can be formal of informal</p></td><td class="confluenceTd"><p><br/></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>Ultimately about supporting people</p>
<p> </p>
</body>