---
layout: post
title: Remote facilitation
date: 2021-08-31
---

<body class="mceContentBody aui-theme-default wiki-content fullsize">
<p> </p> <p>Sometimes the practitioner cannot meet the organisation in-person and must facilitate the work remotely. With the onset of COVID-19, many practitioners have been forced to transition to remote work for the mutual safety of everyone involved. This context has led to greater dependency on webinar and online learning approaches, and digital platforms for community and network engagement.</p><p>Some practitioners and organisations are responding by:</p><ul><li>Purchasing their partners’ data plans so they can access better internet at home to participate in trainings and assessments</li><li>Hosting live video calls, and providing asynchronous options to allow more participation across different time zones</li><li>Recording online discussions and interviews, and releasing them as podcasts</li></ul><p>While there are a new host of challenges with the move to remote training and assessments, there are clear benefits. Remote convenings broaden accessibility because virtual environments allow for a greater number of participants and provide access to those who ordinarily wouldn’t have had the resources to travel to the event. Following the mass movement from physical offices to personal homes, staff living in more connected environments are realising there are critical internet infrastructure inequities which may lead to greater buy-in to change the way technology is designed.</p><h3>Facilitation and Meeting Tips</h3><p>Remote meetings rely on entirely different tool sets and expectations than their in-person equivalents. Practitioners can’t assume the same approaches will fit in virtual settings. At the onset of the pandemic, we’ve seen an increase in Zoom-bombing and new modes of harassment on digital platforms. How do we prepare and design our virtual spaces to lead to greater levels of engagement, understanding and accessibility?</p><p>Here are ten suggestions from community member Trinh Nguyen:</p><h4>Always have an agenda or meeting purpose.</h4><p>Be realistic about what the meeting can achieve. Set time limits and tackle all points. Even for short, standing team meetings, it is important that your members know the purpose / agenda of the meeting. A guide I like to use to create agendas is POP (purpose, outcome, process): <a href="https://facilitationfirst.com/make-your-meetings-pop-setting-your-meeting-up-for-success/">https://facilitationfirst.com/make-your-meetings-pop-setting-your-meeting-up-for-success/</a></p><h4>Desired outcome(s)</h4><p>When thinking about your agenda, envision what makes a successful meeting for you. Is it to get clarity on a number of operational tasks? Is it to brainstorm ideas for fundraising? Is your desired outcome to have 100% of your team fully trained on x thing?</p><p><strong>Who takes notes? How are decisions / ideas / questions being documented?</strong></p><p>Even in standing team meetings, it can be easy to forget to take notes. Documentation is especially important, for those who are not able to be present during the meeting. Create a culture of note-taking that does not rely on just the womxn in your group. Take turns.</p><h4>Be inclusive.</h4><p>Inclusivity is not just about making sure those who need to be in the meeting are there, but also making sure they have the correct tools or ability to access the meeting. Global teams often mean juggling a lot of difficult time zones. On video conferencing platforms that allow for chat, you can ask people to put their preferred gender pronouns and or locations next to their names. It's a good way to "see" who is all in the group.</p><h4>Check-in &amp; Check-Out questions</h4><p>Make sure to allow time for Check-in activities or exercises. It allows participants to be present, seen, and heard. Check-out allows for reflection. Change up these activities every so often if you're in standing meetings.</p><h4>Co-facilitate / co-host for tech inclusion</h4><p>Allowing for a co-host is especially crucial if you're using an online video or voice platform. Make sure that not just one person is hosting an event. If their internet disconnects, you don't want the entire room to be closed. This especially happens for platforms like Zoom. Especially for larger groups, a co-facilitator can help jump in when dealing with a difficult participant who always dominates the conversation or interrupts unnecessarily. A buddy will help you mitigate these participants so you can keep on track. For tech platforms, you can consider banning a person's ability to chat. Here are more tips on how to deal with difficult participants. I find that practicing these are key in larger group settings: <a href="https://facilitatoru.com/meetings/dealing-with-difficult-behaviors/">https://facilitatoru.com/meetings/dealing-with-difficult-behaviors/</a></p><h4>Silence is not consent. Take note of who is and is not speaking.</h4><p>It can be especially daunting during a webinar when no one else among the group is speaking after a prompted question. Silence is not a bad thing; just like in a classroom setting, silence can often mean people are thinking or working their fingers to answer via chat.</p><h4>Be active! Incorporate icebreakers / exercises / build (virtual) meeting culture.</h4><p>For those working mostly remotely/online these days, sitting in meetings after meetings can be very boring and soul-crushing. Make sure to make time for play.</p><h4>Teach technology over time</h4><p>Rolling out a "new" tech tool can be daunting and laborious, if not considering the time it takes to build in practice and guidance. Don't just introduce a new tool without going over the security and privacy features.</p><p>For a webinar:</p><ul><li>Use the first 2-5 minutes to remind people how the function works</li><li>Open your webinar 15 minutes early to allow for folks to test out their settings</li><li>Include an image/slide/or text at the beginning of your webinar or send beforehand the settings or buttons you want people to use</li><li>Keep in mind that not everyone is on the same operating system so your advice may need to cover all the systems</li></ul><h4>Be prepared...</h4><ul><li>For technology to break. Sometimes Wifi will not work, browsers WILL freeze. Have patience and make sure you don't get frazzled if that happens. For a webinar, assign one person to give technical assistance so the presenter does not have to stop.</li><li>To change your tools settings for the relevant meeting style or webinar. Make sure to enable/disable chat, video, audio functions. Make sure you know how to lock, kick-out, or even restart a session if you have to.</li><li>To adapt for low bandwidth. This makes sense for both online and in-person. In real life, this could mean the actual bandwidth/tiredness of everyone to be able to absorb information. Online, access is key. If you know that your audience has less bandwidth, be prepared to be creative about your platform for delivery of information.</li><li>To use different tech. This could mean promoting or using different browsers in order to access your conference tools. For example, Chromium (instead of Firefox) works best for Jitsi fickle audio/video features. (If you don't want to use Chrome, Brave is a good alternative).</li><li>To practice your tools. If running a public-facing or large webinar, run through your entire session/agenda. Just like you would practice your speech, practice screen sharing, showing your video/audio, etc.</li></ul><h3>Existing Resources</h3><ul><li>IFF’s Webinar on Online Facilitation created by Trinh Nguyen <a href="https://internetfreedomfestival.org/wiki/index.php/Online_Facilitation">https://internetfreedomfestival.org/wiki/index.php/Online_Facilitation</a></li><li>Remote Teaching Skills created by Neil Blazevic <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1szFNNOEZEaa-5YXDCCH8ki7Du1TQKXVuZbAXzB5IBJs/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1szFNNOEZEaa-5YXDCCH8ki7Du1TQKXVuZbAXzB5IBJs/edit</a></li><li>SAFETAG Remote Facilitation <a href="https://safetag.org/guide/#section4.5">https://safetag.org/guide/#section4.5</a></li><ul><li>The remote assessment playlist assumes the auditor is remote but the organisation. Some of the suggestions will need to be adapted further.</li></ul><li>Evaluating the security of VOIP options: <a href="https://www.frontlinedefenders.org/en/resource-publication/guide-secure-group-chat-and-conferencing-tools">https://www.frontlinedefenders.org/en/resource-publication/guide-secure-group-chat-and-conferencing-tools</a></li><li>Hyper Island Toolbox <a href="https://toolbox.hyperisland.com/">https://toolbox.hyperisland.com/</a></li><li>OrgSec Village 2020 - Tips for remote facilitation, by The Engine Room <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q6rTrkBXdHQsklKe-2E-3E9_oTa0KTdo3ij6dWeD9zE/edit#heading=h.n797e2uig5t0">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q6rTrkBXdHQsklKe-2E-3E9_oTa0KTdo3ij6dWeD9zE/edit#heading=h.n797e2uig5t0</a></li></ul><h3>Community Needs</h3><p>There is still interest in more community resources around facilitating remote audits, especially the design of interactive and participatory components. As of June 2020, Internews is working with partners to develop guidance around this topic.</p>
<p> </p>
</body>